axis.L.eoffset-clear IN BIT
axis.L.eoffset-counts IN S32
axis.L.eoffset-enable IN BIT
axis.L.eoffset-request OUT FLOAT
axis.L.eoffset-scale IN FLOAT
axis.L.eoffset OUT FLOAT
axis.L.jog-accel-fraction IN FLOAT
axis.L.jog-counts IN S32
axis.L.jog-enable IN BIT
axis.L.jog-scale IN FLOAT
axis.L.jog-vel-mode IN BIT
axis.L.kb-jog-active OUT BIT
axis.L.pos-cmd OUT FLOAT
axis.L.teleop-pos-cmd OUT FLOAT
axis.L.teleop-tp-enable OUT BIT
axis.L.teleop-vel-cmd OUT FLOAT
axis.L.teleop-vel-lim OUT FLOAT
axis.L.wheel-jog-active OUT BIT
bb_gpio.pN.in-NN-invert bit in
bb_gpio.pN.in-NN bit out
bb_gpio.pN.out-NN-invert bit in
bb_gpio.pN.out-NN bit out
bb_gpio.read  
bb_gpio.userledN-invert bit in
bb_gpio.userledN bit in
bb_gpio.write  
classicladder.0.floatin-NN IN float
classicladder.0.floatout-NN OUT float
classicladder.0.hide_gui IN bit
classicladder.0.in-NN IN bit
classicladder.0.ladder-state RO s32
classicladder.0.out-NN OUT bit
classicladder.0.refresh.time RO s32
classicladder.0.refresh.tmax RW s32
classicladder.0.refresh FP 
classicladder.0.s32in-NN IN s32
classicladder.0.s32out-NN OUT s32
counter.N.counts s32 out
counter.N.index-enable bit io
counter.N.phase-A bit in
counter.N.phase-Z bit in
counter.N.position-scale float rw
counter.N.position float out
counter.N.rawcounts s32 ro
counter.N.reset bit io
counter.N.velocity float out
counter.capture-position  
counter.update-counters  
debounce.G.F.in bit in
debounce.G.F.out bit out
debounce.G.delay s32 rw
debounce.G  
encoder.N.capture-position.tmax s32 rw
encoder.N.counter-mode bit io
encoder.N.counter-mode bit rw
encoder.N.counts-latched s32 out
encoder.N.counts s32 out
encoder.N.index-enable bit io
encoder.N.latch-falling bit in
encoder.N.latch-input bit in
encoder.N.latch-rising bit in
encoder.N.min-speed-estimate float in
encoder.N.phase-A bit in
encoder.N.phase-B bit in
encoder.N.phase-Z bit in
encoder.N.position-interpolated float out
encoder.N.position-latched float out
encoder.N.position-scale float io
encoder.N.position float out
encoder.N.rawcounts s32 out
encoder.N.reset bit in
encoder.N.velocity-rpm float out
encoder.N.velocity float out
encoder.N.x4-mode bit io
encoder.capture-position  
encoder.N.  
encoder.update-counters  
encoder-ratio.N.enable bit in
encoder-ratio.N.error float out
encoder-ratio.N.master-A bit in
encoder-ratio.N.master-B bit in
encoder-ratio.N.slave-A bit in
encoder-ratio.N.slave-B bit in
encoder-ratio.N.  
encoder-ratio.N.master-ppr u32 rw
encoder-ratio.N.master-teeth u32 rw
encoder-ratio.N.slave-ppr u32 rw
encoder-ratio.N.slave-teeth u32 rw
encoder-ratio.sample  
encoder-ratio.update  
genhexkins.base.N.x  
genhexkins.base.N.y  
genhexkins.base.N.z  
genhexkins.base-n.N.x  
genhexkins.base-n.N.y  
genhexkins.base-n.N.z  
genhexkins.convergence-criterion  
genhexkins.correction.N  
genhexkins.last-iterations  
genhexkins.limit-iterations  
genhexkins.max-error  
genhexkins.max-iterations  
genhexkins.platform.N.x  
genhexkins.platform.N.y  
genhexkins.platform.N.z  
genhexkins.platform-n.N.x  
genhexkins.platform-n.N.y  
genhexkins.platform-n.N.z  
genhexkins.screw-lead  
genhexkins.spindle-offset  
genhexkins.tool-offset  
genserkins.A-N  
genserkins.ALPHA-N  
genserkins.D-N  
joint.N.active OUT BIT
joint.N.amp-enable-out OUT BIT
joint.N.amp-fault-in IN BIT
joint.N.backlash-corr OUT FLOAT
joint.N.backlash-filt OUT FLOAT
joint.N.backlash-vel OUT FLOAT
joint.N.coarse-pos-cmd OUT FLOAT
joint.N.error OUT BIT
joint.N.f-error-lim OUT FLOAT
joint.N.f-error OUT FLOAT
joint.N.f-errored OUT BIT
joint.N.faulted OUT BIT
joint.N.free-pos-cmd OUT FLOAT
joint.N.free-tp-enable OUT BIT
joint.N.free-vel-lim OUT FLOAT
joint.N.home-state OUT S32
joint.N.home-sw-in IN BIT
joint.N.homed OUT BIT
joint.N.homing OUT BIT
joint.N.in-position OUT BIT
joint.N.index-enable IO BIT
joint.N.jog-accel-fraction IN FLOAT
joint.N.jog-counts IN S32
joint.N.jog-enable IN BIT
joint.N.jog-scale IN FLOAT
joint.N.jog-vel-mode IN BIT
joint.N.joint-acc-cmd OUT FLOAT
joint.N.joint-vel-cmd OUT FLOAT
joint.N.kb-jog-active OUT BIT
joint.N.motor-offset OUT FLOAT
joint.N.motor-pos-cmd OUT FLOAT
joint.N.motor-pos-fb IN FLOAT
joint.N.neg-hard-limit OUT BIT
joint.N.neg-lim-sw-in IN BIT
joint.N.pos-cmd OUT FLOAT
joint.N.pos-fb OUT FLOAT
joint.N.pos-hard-limit OUT BIT
joint.N.pos-lim-sw-in IN BIT
joint.N.unlock OUT BIT
joint.N.wheel-jog-active OUT BIT
joint.N.is-unlocked IN BIT
joint.N.posthome-cmd.  
lcd.NN.contrast float in
lcd.NN.decimal-separator u32 rw
lcd.NN.out u32 out
lcd.NN.page_num u32 in
lcd.NN.page.PP.arg.NN float/s32/u32/bit in
lcd  
lineardeltakins.L float in
lineardeltakins.R float in
matrix_kb.N.col-CC-in bit in
matrix_kb.N.key_rollover u32 r/w
matrix_kb.N.key.rRcC bit out
matrix_kb.N.keycode u32 io
matrix_kb.N.negative-logic bit r/w
matrix_kb.N.row-RR-out bit out
matrix_kb.N  
motion-command-handler.time OUT S32
motion-command-handler.tmax,tmax-increasedare created for
motion-controller.time OUT S32
motion-controller.tmax,tmax-increased  
motion.adaptive-feed IN FLOAT
motion.analog-in-NN IN FLOAT
motion.analog-out-NN OUT FLOAT
motion.coord-error OUT BIT
motion.coord-mode OUT BIT
motion.current-vel OUT FLOAT
motion.debug-*  
motion.digital-in-NN IN BIT
motion.digital-out-NN OUT BIT
motion.distance-to-go OUT FLOAT
motion.enable IN BIT
motion.eoffset-active OUT BIT
motion.eoffset-limited OUT BIT
motion.feed-hold IN BIT
motion.feed-inhibit IN BIT
motion.homing-inhibit IN BIT
motion.in-position OUT BIT
motion.motion-enabled OUT BIT
motion.motion-type OUT S32
motion.on-soft-limit OUT BIT
motion.probe-input IN BIT
motion.program-line OUT S32
motion.requested-vel OUT FLOAT
motion.servo.last-period OUT U32
motion.teleop-mode OUT BIT
motion.tooloffset.L OUT FLOAT
motion-command-handler.tmax-increased RO S32
motion-command-handler.tmax RW S32
motion-command-handler  
motion-controller.tmax-increased RO BIT
motion-controller.tmax RW S32
mux-gen.N.elapsed float r
mux-gen.N.selected s32 r
mux-gen.NN.debounce-us u32 in
mux-gen.NN.in-[bit/float/s32/u32]-MM variable-type in
mux-gen.NN.out-[bit/float/s32/u32] variable-type out
mux-gen.NN.sel-bitMM bit in
mux-gen.NN.sel-int u32 in
mux-gen.NN.suppress-no-input bit in
mux-gen.NN  
num_3pwmgens  
num_aio:  
num_bspis  
num_chan=0  
num_dio:  
num_dplls  
num_encoders  
num_inputs-1.  
num_joints:  
num_leds  
num_pwmgens  
num_resolvers  
num_spindles:  
num_ssrs  
num_stepgens  
opto_ac5.[BOARDNUMBER].led[NUMBER] OUT bit
opto_ac5.[BOARDNUMBER].port[PORTNUMBER].in-[PINNUMBER] OUT bit
opto_ac5.[BOARDNUMBER].port[PORTNUMBER].in-[PINNUMBER]-not OUT bit
opto_ac5.[BOARDNUMBER].port[PORTNUMBER].out-[PINNUMBER] IN bit
opto_ac5.[BOARDNUMBER].port[PORTNUMBER].out-[PINNUMBER]-invert W bit
opto_ac5.0.digital-read  
opto_ac5.0.digital-write  
pid.N.bias float in
pid.N.command-deriv float in
pid.N.command float in
pid.N.commandD float ro
pid.N.commandDD float ro
pid.N.commandDDD float ro
pid.N.deadband float in
pid.N.Dgain float in
pid.N.do-pid-calcs  
pid.N.enable bit in
pid.N.error-previous-target bit in
pid.N.error float out
pid.N.errorD float ro
pid.N.errorI float ro
pid.N.feedback-deriv float in
pid.N.feedback float in
pid.N.FF0 float in
pid.N.FF1 float in
pid.N.FF2 float in
pid.N.FF3 float in
pid.N.Igain float in
pid.N.index-enable bit in
pid.N.maxcmdD float in
pid.N.maxcmdDD float in
pid.N.maxcmdDDD float in
pid.N.maxerror float in
pid.N.maxerrorD float in
pid.N.maxerrorI float in
pid.N.maxoutput float in
pid.N.output float out
pid.N.Pgain float in
pid.N.saturated-count s32 out
pid.N.saturated-s float out
pid.N.saturated bit out
pid.N.  
pumakins.A2  
pumakins.A3  
pumakins.D3  
pumakins.D4  
pwmgen.N.curr-dc float out
pwmgen.N.dir bit out
pwmgen.N.dither-pwm bit in/out
pwmgen.N.down bit out
pwmgen.N.enable bit in
pwmgen.N.max-dc float in/out
pwmgen.N.min-dc float in/out
pwmgen.N.offset float in/out
pwmgen.N.pwm-freq float in/out
pwmgen.N.pwm bit out
pwmgen.N.scale float in/out
pwmgen.N.up bit out
pwmgen.N.value float in
pwmgen.make-pulses  
pwmgen.update  
rosekins.bigtheta_degrees float out
rosekins.revolutions float out
rosekins.theta_degrees float out
sampler.N.curr-depth s32 output
sampler.N.enable bit input
sampler.N.full bit output
sampler.N.overruns s32 read/write
sampler.N.pin.M input 
sampler.N.sample-num s32 read/write
scarakins.D1  
scarakins.D2  
scarakins.D3  
scarakins.D4  
scarakins.D5  
scarakins.D6  
siggen.N.amplitude float in
siggen.N.clock bit out
siggen.N.cosine float out
siggen.N.frequency float in
siggen.N.offset float in
siggen.N.reset bit in
siggen.N.sawtooth float out
siggen.N.sine float out
siggen.N.square float out
siggen.N.triangle float out
siggen.N.update  
siggen.N.  
sim-encoder.N.phase-A bit out
sim-encoder.N.phase-B bit out
sim-encoder.N.phase-Z bit out
sim-encoder.N.ppr u32 rw
sim-encoder.N.scale float rw
sim-encoder.N.speed float in
sim-encoder.make-pulses  
sim-encoder.N.  
sim-encoder.update-speed  
spindle.M.at-speed IN BIT
spindle.M.forward OUT BIT
spindle.M.index-enable io BIT
spindle.M.inhibit IN BIT
spindle.M.is-oriented IN BIT
spindle.M.locked OUT BIT
spindle.M.on OUT BIT
spindle.M.orient-angle OUT FLOAT
spindle.M.orient-fault IN S32
spindle.M.orient-mode OUT BIT
spindle.M.orient OUT BIT
spindle.M.reverse OUT BIT
spindle.M.revs IN FLOAT
spindle.M.speed-cmd-rps FLOAT OUT
spindle.M.speed-in IN FLOAT
spindle.M.speed-out-abs OUT FLOAT
spindle.M.speed-out-rps-abs OUT FLOAT
spindle.M.speed-out-rps OUT FLOAT
spindle.M.speed-out OUT FLOAT
spindle.M.amp-fault-in IN BIT
spindle.Make OUT BIT
sserial_port_N  
stepgen_width  
stepgen.N.counts s32 out
stepgen.N.dir bit out
stepgen.N.dirdelay u32 rw
stepgen.N.dirhold u32 rw
stepgen.N.dirsetup u32 rw
stepgen.N.down bit out
stepgen.N.enable bit in
stepgen.N.frequency float ro
stepgen.N.maxaccel float rw
stepgen.N.maxvel float rw
stepgen.N.phase-Athruphase-E bit out
stepgen.N.position-cmd float in
stepgen.N.position-fb float out
stepgen.N.position-scale float rw
stepgen.N.rawcounts s32 ro
stepgen.N.step bit out
stepgen.N.steplen u32 rw
stepgen.N.stepspace u32 rw
stepgen.N.up bit out
stepgen.N.velocity-cmd float in
stepgen.capture-position  
stepgen.make-pulses  
stepgen.update-freq  
supply.N._q bit out
supply.N._variable float out
supply.N.d bit rw
supply.N.q bit out
supply.N.update  
supply.N.value bit rw
supply.N.variable float out
tripodkins.Bx  
tripodkins.Cx  
tripodkins.Cy  
watchdog.enable-in bit in
watchdog.input-n bit in
watchdog.ok-out bit out
watchdog.timeout-n float in
wsum.N.bit.M.in bit in
wsum.N.bit.M.weight s32 rw
wsum.N.hold bit in
wsum.N.offset s32 rw
wsum.N.sum s32 out

