.\" Copyright (c) 2014 Jeff Epler
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301,
.\" USA.
.TH HM2_SPI "9" "2008-05-13" "LinuxCNC Documentation" "HAL Component"
.de TQ
.br
.ns
.TP \\$1
..

.SH NAME

hm2_spi \- LinuxCNC HAL driver for the Mesa Electronics SPI Anything IO boards, with HostMot2 firmware.
.SH SYNOPSIS

.HP
.B loadrt hm2_spi [config=\fI"str[,str...]"\fB] [spidev_path=path[,path...]\fB] [spidev_rate=\fIrate[,rate...]\fB]
.RS 4
.TP
\fBconfig\fR [default: ""]
HostMot2 config strings, described in the hostmot2(9) manpage.
.TP
\fBspidev_path\fR [default: "/dev/spidev1.0"]
The path to the spi device node, a character special device in /dev
.TP
\fBspidev_rate\fR [default: 24000]
The desired rate of the SPI clock in kHz.  If the exact specified clock is not
available, a lower clock is used.  Due to shortcomings in the spidev API, it is
not possible for hal to report the actual clock used.
.SH DESCRIPTION

hm2_spi is a device driver that interfaces Mesa's SPI
based Anything I/O boards (with the HostMot2 firmware) to the LinuxCNC
HAL.

The supported boards are: 7I90HD.

The board must have a compatible firmware loaded on the board by the
mesaflash(1) program.

hm2_spi is only available when linuxcnc is configured with "uspace" realtime.

.SH INTERFACE CONFIGURATION

It is possible for one SPI bus to connect several devices; in this
configuration, a master device has several chip select lines.  In order to meet
realtime deadlines,  hm2_spi should be used on a dedicated SPI interface not
shared with any other slaves.

.SH REALTIME PERFORMANCE OF LINUX SPIDEV DRIVERS

As of kernel 3.8, most or all kernel SPI drivers do not achieve the high
realtime response rate required for a typical linuxcnc configuration.  The
driver was tested with a modified version of the spi\-s3c64xx SPI driver on the
Odroid U3 platform.  The patched kernel resides
.UR https://github.com/jepler/odroid\-linux/tree/odroid\-3.8.13\-rt
on github
.UE .

.SH SPI CLOCK RATES
The maximum SPI clock of the 7i90 is documented as 50MHz.  Other elements of
the data path between HAL and the 7i90 may impose other limitations.

.SH SEE ALSO

hostmot2(9)
.SH LICENSE

GPL

****************************************************************************

.TH HM2_SPI "9" "2008-05-13" "Documentación LinuxCNC" "Componente HAL"
.de TQ
.br
.ns
.TP \\$1
..

.SH NOMBRE

hm2_spi\- Controlador HAL LinuxCNC para las tarjetas Mesa Electronics SPI Anything IO, con firmware HostMot2.
.SH SINOPSIS

.HP
.B loadrt hm2_spi [config = \fI "str [, str ...]" \fB] [spidev_path = ruta [, ruta ...] \fB] [spidev_rate = \fIrate [, rate ...] \fB ]
.RS 4
.TP
\fBconfig\fR [predeterminado: ""]
Cadenas de configuración de HostMot2, descritas en la página de manual de hostmot2 (9).
.TP
\fBspidev_path\fR [predeterminado: "/dev/spidev1.0"]
La ruta al nodo del dispositivo spi, un dispositivo especial de caracteres en / dev
.TP
\fBspidev_rate\fR [predeterminado: 24000]
La velocidad deseada del reloj SPI en kHz. Si el reloj exacto especificado no es
disponible, se usa un reloj inferior. Debido a las deficiencias en la API spidev, es
Hal no puede informar el reloj real utilizado.
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN

hm2_spi es un controlador de dispositivo que interactúa con el SPI de Mesa
Basó cualquier tarjeta de E / S (con el firmware HostMot2) en LinuxCNC
HAL

Las tarjetas compatibles son: 7I90HD.

La tarjeta debe tener un firmware compatible cargado en la tarjeta por el
programa mesaflash (1).

hm2_spi solo está disponible cuando linuxcnc está configurado con "uspace" en tiempo real.

.SH CONFIGURACIÓN DE INTERFAZ

Es posible que un bus SPI conecte varios dispositivos; en esto
configuración, un dispositivo maestro tiene varias líneas de selección de chip. Con el fin de satisfacer
fechas límite en tiempo real, hm2_spi debe usarse en una interfaz SPI dedicada, no
compartido con otros esclavos.

.SH RENDIMIENTO EN TIEMPO REAL DE LOS CONDUCTORES LINUX SPIDEV

A partir del kernel 3.8, la mayoría o todos los controladores SPI del kernel no alcanzan el alto
tasa de respuesta en tiempo real requerida para una configuración típica de linuxcnc. los
el controlador se probó con una versión modificada del controlador spi\-s3c64xx SPI en el
Plataforma Odroid U3. El núcleo parcheado reside
.UR https://github.com/jepler/odroid\-linux/tree/odroid\-3.8.13\-rt
en github
.UE.

.SH TARIFAS DE RELOJ SPI
El reloj SPI máximo del 7i90 está documentado como 50MHz. Otros elementos de
La ruta de datos entre HAL y el 7i90 puede imponer otras limitaciones.

.SH VER TAMBIÉN

hostmot2 (9)
.SH LICENCIA

GPL
